---
layout: post
title: "WA 2016 Week 27: Weekly Roundup and Website Housekeeping"
modified:
categories: 
excerpt: Links to some great articles I've read this last week, plus mentions of a few changes here on my site.
tags: [tools for thinking]
image:
  feature: weekly-assemblage.png
  thumb: weekly-assemblage.png
published: true
date: 2016-07-06T13:42:45-06:00
---
  
[Weekly Whaaa…?]({% post_url 2016-01-09-weekly-whaaa %})  
{: .notice}  

## Weekly Roundup  

I read a lot this last week or so—too much to annotate each in depth. So I'll just quickly post links to all of these and suggest you go check them out:  

Rebecca Halpern and Chimene Tucker's ["Leveraging Adult Learning Theory with Online Tutorials"](http://pdxscholar.library.pdx.edu/liw_portland/Presentations/Publications/11/) <i class="ai ai-open-access-square ai-3x"></i> article gave me a lot to think about as I'm trying to make new online material. (That's a link to the open access version, by the way, which I'm linking to in case you don't have access to [the version of record](http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/RSR-10-2014-0042).)  

I also really appreciated Denisse Solis's ["LIS Programs & the Need for Dialog"](https://hacklibraryschool.com/2016/07/06/dialogue/) article at Hack Library School.   

Kate Rubick's ["Flashlight: Using Bizup's BEAM to Illuminate the Rhetoric of Research"](http://pdxscholar.library.pdx.edu/liw_portland/Presentations/Publications/3/) <i class="ai ai-open-access-square ai-3x"></i> usefully explains Bizup's BEAM model for engaging with sources. I'd already heard of the BEAM model while I was taking a course on library instruction from Andrea Baer, and Rubick's article reinforces how useful Bizup's approach can be. (That's a link to the open access version, which I'm linking to in case you don't have access to [the version of record](http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/RSR-10-2014-0047).)  

If you've yet to read ["Reader Response [to Eric Jennings, “The librarian stereotype: How librarians are damaging their image and profession" C&UL 23:1, 93-100]"](http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/libraryscience/339/), please just _go read it now_. Not only did the authors (Erica DeFrain, April Hathcock, Turner Masland, Nichole Pagowsky, Annie Pho, Miriam Rigby, and K.R. Roberto) craft a powerful response, but they also advocated for retaining their rights to place it in their institutional repositories.  

## Recent Website Housekeeping  

I've starting streamlining the architecture of my site. There may be a few more changes coming, mostly with fonts at this point.  

I've also added a [page for my public talks]({{site.url}}/talks/). I'll keep posting transcripts and slides for talks there from here on out.  